---
title: S3
parent: AWS services
nav_order: 3
---

# S3
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

### What is S3?
Unlike EBS storage, Simple Storage Service (S3) buckets are persistent, and can be used to store all of the files related to a project.

### Create an S3 bucket
{: .d-inline }
[<sup>1</sup>](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/create-bucket.html)
{: .d-inline-block }
1. From the management console, navigate to the
[S3 Console](https://s3.console.aws.amazon.com/s3/buckets/)
page and click on Create bucket
1. Enter a DNS-compliant bucket name and click Next
1. Turn on Default encryption with AES-256 and click Next
1. Block all public access by default and create your bucket
1. (Optional) Once your bucket has been created, click on its Management tab and follow the steps to add a Lifecycle Policy

### Encryption
If you want to upload files from the bucket, whether from the website or from the command line, you must use server-side encryption (SSE).
The organization’s Service Control Policy will reject any uploads that are not made with SSE.
For example, if you upload using the website, under “Select properties,” you must select “Amazon S3 master-key” for the file’s encryption.

### CLI S3 commands
{: .d-inline }
[<sup>2</sup>](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-services-s3-commands.html)
{: .d-inline-block }
Note: these commands only work for files.
To use them with directories, add the flag “--recursive” after the command
* `aws s3 ls s3://MyBucket`
	* Returns the files located in the bucket
* `aws s3 cp [source] [destination] --sse`
	* Copies a file from your computer to the bucket, from the bucket to your computer, or from one bucket to another bucket
* `aws s3 mv [source] [directory]`
	* Moves a file from one part of a bucket to another
* `aws s3 rm [file]`
	* Removes a file from a bucket

### Compression
In AWS, you pay per gigabyte of storage.
Therefore, it is good practice to delete the intermediate files you don’t need for computation, downloading them to your own hard drive if necessary.
The files that you do keep in the bucket should be compressed to avoid paying for more than is necessary.

#### For directories
* To compress a directory, type the following into your Terminal:
	```
	tar -cvzf DIRECTORY COMPRESSED_FILENAME
	```
* To uncompress a directory, type the following into your Terminal:
	```
	tar -xvzf DIRECTORY
	```

#### For individual files
* To compress a file, type the following into your Terminal:
	```
	gzip FILENAME
	```
* To uncompress a file, type the following into your Terminal:
	```
	gunzip FILENAME
	```

### Downloading files from the Internet
If you are downloading from the Internet, it’s more efficient to download to an EC2 instance using a command such as `wget`,  and copy from it to the S3 bucket, instead of downloading to your personal computer.
This works better because the connections between different AWS services are much faster than between your computer and any of those services.

